AllLessons.md, before:

# Red Light! Green Light!

![red light welcome](redlightwelcome.png)

## Rules to Play

- Use the arrow keys to move left and right.
- Try to only move forward when the light is green. 
- If you accidentally walk when the light is red, take three big steps back.

If you make it to the other side, you win!

## Build the Game

### Teach the Cat to walk

Add the following code to the cat sprite, so that it will walk forward and backward when you press the left and right arrow keys.

![cat code](walkleftrightcatcode.png)

To find these command blocks, you will need to look in the *Events* and *Motion* script block sections.

![events](events.png)
![motion](motion.png)

The *when left arrow is pressed* command makes the command that follows it only happen when you press the left arrow key on the keyboard. Add this block twice. Select 'left arrow' for the first version, and select 'right arrow' for the second version.

![Move10](move10steps.png)

The *move 10* command tells the cat to move a bit in the direction it is facing. It is facing to the right, so it will move right. Add this block twice. 

For the *move 10* block below *when left arrow is pressed* put a minus sign in front of the 10. This tells the cat to take 10 steps back, instead of forward. This code lets you use the left arrow key to take three big steps back when you accidentally step forward on a red light.

### Make the Stop Light

![cat and ball sprite listed](catandballsprite.png)

Add a new ball sprite. It will become our stop light.

Add the following code to the ball sprite.

![Stop light code](redlightcode.png)

![wait 1 sec](wait1sec.png)

Without the *wait 1 secs* command, our light would change much to fast, making the game too hard. 

- ![set color red](setcolor180.png) ![Green ball](greenball.png)
- ![set color red](setcolor255.png) ![Red ball](redball.png)

These commands change the color of the ball. Different numbers select different colors. I figured out which colors were red and green by trying lots of different numbers. Number 180 makes the ball green. Number 255 makes the ball red.

Enjoy your new game! You can also [Play or Remix my version](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170705647/).

# Scribble Bug

![Scribble Bug Intro Picture](ScribbleBug.png)

Teach Scribble bug how to follow your mouse while he scribbles in fun colors.

## Bug

- If you want to, use the sprite library to change the cat into a bug, or some other animal.
- The links at the left are sets of pictures. The bug I chose is in the *Animals* set.
![Sprite Library](SpriteLibrary.png)


## Teach the Scribble Bug with Scratch Code

Add the following code to your sprite.

![Scribble Bug Code](ScribbleBugCode.png)

The blocks we want are:
- *when Green Flag clicked* ![green flag](whengreenflagclicked.png)
- *pen down* 
![Pen Down](pendown.png)
- *forever*
![Forever](forever.png)
- *point towards*
![Point Toward](pointtowardsmousepointer.png)
- *change pen shade by 10*
![Pen color by 10](changepenshadeby10.png)
- *move 10 steps*
![Move 10 steps](move10steps.png)


![Scripts Pen](ScriptsPen.png)

![Pen Down](pendown.png)

*Pen Down* is a *Pen* script. Find it in the *Pen* section. You may need to scroll down in the scripts window. It tells Scribble Bug to touch the pen down to the page.

![Scripts Control](ScriptsControl.png)

![Forever](forever.png)

*Forever* is a *Control* script. Find it in the *Control* section. It will make the commands inside repeat forever. You will use it to make Scribble Bug follow 
your mouse forever.

![Scripts Motion](ScriptsMotion.png)

![Point Toward](pointtowardsmousepointer.png)

*Point Toward* is a *Motion* script. You will use it to tell Scribble Bug to point toward your mouse pointer. Since it goes inside the *Forever* script, Scribble Bug will point toward your mouse forever.

![Scripts Pen](ScriptsPen.png)

![Pen shade by 10](changepenshadeby10.png)

*Change pen shade by 10* is another *Pen* script. It tells scribble bug to change its pen color just a little bit. Since it goes inside the *Forever* script, Scribble Bug will draw a rainbow line!

![Scripts Motion](ScriptsMotion.png)

![Move 10 steps](move10steps.png)

*Move 10 steps* is another *Motion* script. It tell scribble bug to move forward a little bit. Since it goes inside the *Forever* script, Scribble Bug will always move forward. If we forgot this command, Scribble Bug would forget to move.

## Assemble

Now that you have all the parts, here's the way to assemble them, again.
![Scribble Bug Code](ScribbleBugCode.png)

## Demo

You can copy, remix and enjoy [My Version of Scribble Bug](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170692819/), too.

# Starfish Chase!

![Squid chasing starfish](https://github.com/edthedev/scratch_lessons/blob/master/Screenshot%202017-08-06%20at%208.39.47%20PM.png)

Make a game where a squid follows your mouse pointer, and starfish run away from the squid.
[To see what it is like, click here to play!](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170626313/#player)

## Add the first two sprites.

Start by adding one squid sprite and one starfish sprite.

- The Sprite panel is in the lower left.
- Find and press the *'Add Sprite'* button. It looks like a face.
- ![Add sprite button](NewSprite.png)
- You can click the words on the left to explore the sets of sprites. 
- ![Sprite Library](SpriteLibrary.png)
- Squid is in the *Underwater* set.
- Find the *Squid* sprite and add *one*.
- Repeat this process to add *one* *Starfish*.


## Code the Squid

Click on the squid sprite and add the following code:

![Squid source code](https://github.com/edthedev/scratch_lessons/blob/master/SquidCode.png)


## Code the starfish

Be sure to name the squid sprite 'Squid'. The starfish code below uses this name to decide which sprite to run away from. 

- Right-click on the squid sprite.
- Select 'Info'
- ![Sprite info](NameYourSprite.png)
- Type the new name 'Squid' in the box that appears.
- ![Sprite Name](NameYourSprite2.png)
- Press the back arrow to return to the sprite list.


Click on the starfish sprite and add the following code to make the starfish run away from the squid.

![Starfish source code](StarfishCode1.png)

## BONUS! Wandering Starfish

Make the starfish wander around when not chased. 
Click on the starfish sprite and expand the code to match the following.

![Advanced Starfish source code](StarfishCode2.png)

## BONUS! More Starfish!

If you want more starfish to chase, duplicate the star fish a few times.

![How to duplicate Starfish](https://github.com/edthedev/scratch_lessons/blob/master/Screenshot%202017-08-06%20at%208.40.53%20PM.png)		 
 
 ## Remix
 
 If you want to play or remix my version, you can find it [here](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170626313/).

Commit message:

Added green flag at end.

AllLessons.md, after:

# Red Light! Green Light!

![red light welcome](redlightwelcome.png)

## Rules to Play

- Use the arrow keys to move left and right.
- Try to only move forward when the light is green. 
- If you accidentally walk when the light is red, take three big steps back.

If you make it to the other side, you win!

## Build the Game

### Teach the Cat to walk

Add the following code to the cat sprite, so that it will walk forward and backward when you press the left and right arrow keys.

![cat code](walkleftrightcatcode.png)

To find these command blocks, you will need to look in the *Events* and *Motion* script block sections.

![events](events.png)
![motion](motion.png)

The *when left arrow is pressed* command makes the command that follows it only happen when you press the left arrow key on the keyboard. Add this block twice. Select 'left arrow' for the first version, and select 'right arrow' for the second version.

![Move10](move10steps.png)

The *move 10* command tells the cat to move a bit in the direction it is facing. It is facing to the right, so it will move right. Add this block twice. 

For the *move 10* block below *when left arrow is pressed* put a minus sign in front of the 10. This tells the cat to take 10 steps back, instead of forward. This code lets you use the left arrow key to take three big steps back when you accidentally step forward on a red light.

### Make the Stop Light

![cat and ball sprite listed](catandballsprite.png)

Add a new ball sprite. It will become our stop light.

Add the following code to the ball sprite.

![Stop light code](redlightcode.png)

![wait 1 sec](wait1sec.png)

Without the *wait 1 secs* command, our light would change much to fast, making the game too hard. 

- ![set color red](setcolor180.png) ![Green ball](greenball.png)
- ![set color red](setcolor255.png) ![Red ball](redball.png)

These commands change the color of the ball. Different numbers select different colors. I figured out which colors were red and green by trying lots of different numbers. Number 180 makes the ball green. Number 255 makes the ball red.

Enjoy your new game! You can also [Play or Remix my version](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170705647/).

# Scribble Bug

![Scribble Bug Intro Picture](ScribbleBug.png)

Teach Scribble bug how to follow your mouse while he scribbles in fun colors.

## Bug

- If you want to, use the sprite library to change the cat into a bug, or some other animal.
- The links at the left are sets of pictures. The bug I chose is in the *Animals* set.
![Sprite Library](SpriteLibrary.png)


## Teach the Scribble Bug with Scratch Code

Add the following code to your sprite.

![Scribble Bug Code](ScribbleBugCode.png)

The blocks we want are:
- *when Green Flag clicked* ![green flag](whengreenflagclicked.png)
- *pen down* 
![Pen Down](pendown.png)
- *forever*
![Forever](forever.png)
- *point towards*
![Point Toward](pointtowardsmousepointer.png)
- *change pen shade by 10*
![Pen color by 10](changepenshadeby10.png)
- *move 10 steps*
![Move 10 steps](move10steps.png)


![Scripts Pen](ScriptsPen.png)

![Pen Down](pendown.png)

*Pen Down* is a *Pen* script. Find it in the *Pen* section. You may need to scroll down in the scripts window. It tells Scribble Bug to touch the pen down to the page.

![Scripts Control](ScriptsControl.png)

![Forever](forever.png)

*Forever* is a *Control* script. Find it in the *Control* section. It will make the commands inside repeat forever. You will use it to make Scribble Bug follow 
your mouse forever.

![Scripts Motion](ScriptsMotion.png)

![Point Toward](pointtowardsmousepointer.png)

*Point Toward* is a *Motion* script. You will use it to tell Scribble Bug to point toward your mouse pointer. Since it goes inside the *Forever* script, Scribble Bug will point toward your mouse forever.

![Scripts Pen](ScriptsPen.png)

![Pen shade by 10](changepenshadeby10.png)

*Change pen shade by 10* is another *Pen* script. It tells scribble bug to change its pen color just a little bit. Since it goes inside the *Forever* script, Scribble Bug will draw a rainbow line!

![Scripts Motion](ScriptsMotion.png)

![Move 10 steps](move10steps.png)

*Move 10 steps* is another *Motion* script. It tell scribble bug to move forward a little bit. Since it goes inside the *Forever* script, Scribble Bug will always move forward. If we forgot this command, Scribble Bug would forget to move.

## Assemble

Now that you have all the parts, here's the way to assemble them, again.
![Scribble Bug Code](ScribbleBugCode.png)

## Demo

You can copy, remix and enjoy [My Version of Scribble Bug](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170692819/), too.

# Starfish Chase!

![Squid chasing starfish](https://github.com/edthedev/scratch_lessons/blob/master/Screenshot%202017-08-06%20at%208.39.47%20PM.png)

Make a game where a squid follows your mouse pointer, and starfish run away from the squid.
[To see what it is like, click here to play!](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170626313/#player)

## Add the first two sprites.

Start by adding one squid sprite and one starfish sprite.

- The Sprite panel is in the lower left.
- Find and press the *'Add Sprite'* button. It looks like a face.
- ![Add sprite button](NewSprite.png)
- You can click the words on the left to explore the sets of sprites. 
- ![Sprite Library](SpriteLibrary.png)
- Squid is in the *Underwater* set.
- Find the *Squid* sprite and add *one*.
- Repeat this process to add *one* *Starfish*.


## Code the Squid

Click on the squid sprite and add the following code:

![Squid source code](https://github.com/edthedev/scratch_lessons/blob/master/SquidCode.png)


## Code the starfish

Be sure to name the squid sprite 'Squid'. The starfish code below uses this name to decide which sprite to run away from. 

- Right-click on the squid sprite.
- Select 'Info'
- ![Sprite info](NameYourSprite.png)
- Type the new name 'Squid' in the box that appears.
- ![Sprite Name](NameYourSprite2.png)
- Press the back arrow to return to the sprite list.


Click on the starfish sprite and add the following code to make the starfish run away from the squid.

![Starfish source code](StarfishCode1.png)

## BONUS! Wandering Starfish

Make the starfish wander around when not chased. 
Click on the starfish sprite and expand the code to match the following.

![Advanced Starfish source code](StarfishCode2.png)

## BONUS! More Starfish!

If you want more starfish to chase, duplicate the star fish a few times.

![How to duplicate Starfish](https://github.com/edthedev/scratch_lessons/blob/master/Screenshot%202017-08-06%20at%208.40.53%20PM.png)		 
 
 ## Play!

![Green Flag](greenflag.png)
Press the *Green Flag* to play your new game!

![red light welcome](redlightwelcome.png)

If you want to play or remix my version, you can find it [here](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/170626313/).
